[ADD] Purchase: Vendor costs (#9255)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/inventory_and_mrp/purchase/advanced/vendor_costs_report.rst

===================
Vendor costs report
===================

.. |RFQ| replace:: :abbr:`RfQ (Request for Quotation)`
.. |RFQs| replace:: :abbr:`RfQs (Requests for Quotation)`
.. |POs| replace:: :abbr:`POs (Purchase Orders)`
.. |caret| replace:: :icon:`fa-caret-down` :guilabel:`(down)` icon

With the *Purchase* application, users can track the fluctuation of vendor costs over time. This
allows users to identify the most expensive vendors, and track seasonal changes.

> Create a vendor costs report

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create vendor costs reports
```
suggestion for slightly more concise section header -- totally optional

============================

To create a vendor costs report, first navigate to :menuselection:`Purchase app --> Reporting -->
Purchase` to open the :guilabel:`Purchase Analysis` dashboard. By default, the dashboard displays a

> line chart overview of the untaxed total of POs (Purchase Orders) with a confirmation date for the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
line chart overview of the :guilabel:`Untaxed Total` of POs (Purchase Orders) with a :guilabel:`Confirmation Date` for the
```
just suggesting this because it technically *does* appear on the UI

current month, or of RFQs (Requests for Quotation) with a status of *Draft*, *Sent, or *Cancelled*.

Add filters and groups
----------------------

On the top-right, click the :icon:`oi-view-pivot` :guilabel:`(pivot)` icon to switch to pivot view.

> Click into the :guilabel:`Search...` bar and remove any default filters. Then, click the |caret| to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Remove any default filters from the :guilabel:`Search...` bar. Then, click the |caret| to
```

open the drop-down menu that contains the :guilabel:`Filters`, :guilabel:`Group By`, and
:guilabel:`Favorites` columns.

.. note::
   Unless otherwise specified, the report displays data from both |RFQs| and |POs|. This can be
   changed by selecting either :guilabel:`Requests for Quotation` or :guilabel:`Purchase Orders`
   under the :guilabel:`Filters` column.

Under the :guilabel:`Filters` column, select a date range to use for comparison. The report can be
filtered by either :guilabel:`Order Date` or :guilabel:`Confirmation Date`. Choose one from the
list, and click the |caret| to specify the date range, either by month, quarter, or year.

Next, under the :guilabel:`Group by` column, select :guilabel:`Vendor`. Then, select

> :guilabel:`Product`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Product`, which is also located in the :guilabel:`Group By` column.
```
optional suggestion for added specificity

.. note::

>     Selecting :guilabel:`Product` is **not** required for this report, however, as it provides
>     additional insight into the performance of individual vendors, it is recommended. Additional

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Selecting :guilabel:`Product` is **not** required for this report. However, it is recommended, as it provides
    additional insight into the performance of individual vendors. Additional
```

>     selections can be made under the :guilabel:`Group by` heading as well, including

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    selections can be made under the :guilabel:`Group by` heading, as well, including
```

.. note::
   While multiple time-based filters can be added at once, only one comparison can be selected at a
   time.

.. image:: vendor_costs_report/filters-groups.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The drop-down menu of filters, group by and comparison options for the vendor costs report.

Add measures
------------

After selecting the :guilabel:`Filters`, :guilabel:`Group by`, and :guilabel:`Comparison` settings,
click out of the drop-down menu.

By default, the report displays with the following measures: :guilabel:`Order`, :guilabel:`Total`,
:guilabel:`Untaxed Total`, and :guilabel:`Count`. Click :guilabel:`Measures` at the top-left to open
the drop-down list of available measures. Click :guilabel:`Average Cost` to add it to the report.
Select any additional measures to add to the report, or click on any of the already selected
measures to remove them, if desired.

.. tip::
   It is recommended to run the report with at least :guilabel:`Average Cost`, :guilabel:`Total`, or
   :guilabel:`Untaxed Total` selected from the :guilabel:`Measures` list. Additional measures, such
   as :guilabel:`Days to Receive`, can be added to provide additional insights.

View results
============

> The vendor costs report displays in the *pivot* view by default. Click :guilabel:`Insert in

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The vendor costs report is displayed in the *pivot* view by default. Click :guilabel:`Insert in
```

> The vendor costs report is displayed in the *pivot* view by default. Click :guilabel:`Insert in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The vendor costs report is displayed in the *pivot* view, by default. Click :guilabel:`Insert in
```

The vendor costs report is displayed in the *pivot* view, by default. Click :guilabel:`Insert in

> Spreadsheet` to add the pivot view into an editable spreadsheet format within the *Dashboards* app.
> If the Odoo *Documents* app is installed, the report can be inserted into a blank or existing
> spreadsheet, and exported.

Reviewer 3: Arent spreadsheets editible from within the *Documents* app? And the Insert into Spreadsheet button will only appear if the specific _Documents Spreadsheets_ module is installed, which installs the *Spreadsheets* module as a dependency 
```suggestion
Spreadsheet` to add the pivot view into an editable spreadsheet format within the *Documents* app.

.. important::
   The :guilabel:`Insert in Spreadsheet` option is only available if the *Documents Spreadsheet*
   module is installed.
```

.. image:: vendor_costs_report/sample-vendor-report.png
   :align: center
   :alt: A sample of a vendor costs report with the measures set as total and average costs.

.. note::
   The vendor costs report is also available in *graph* view. Click the :icon:`fa-area-chart`
   :guilabel:`(area chart)` icon to change to graph view. Click the corresponding icon at the top of
   the report to switch to a :icon:`fa-bar-chart` :guilabel:`(bar chart)`, :icon:`fa-line-chart`

>    :guilabel:`(line chart)`, or :icon:`fa-pie-chart` :guilabel:`(pie chart)`.
> 
> 
> Save and share a favorite search
> --------------------------------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   :guilabel:`(line chart)`, or :icon:`fa-pie-chart` :guilabel:`(pie chart)`.

Save and share a favorite search
--------------------------------
```
removed an extra empty line

The *Favorites* feature found on Odoo reports allows users to save their most commonly used filters,
without having to reconstruct them every time they are needed.

To create and save a new *Favorites* configuration on a report, follow the steps below:

#. Set the necessary parameters using the :guilabel:`Filters`, :guilabel:`Group By` and
   :guilabel:`Measures` options.
#. Click the :icon:`fa-caret-down` :guilabel:`(down)` icon next to the :guilabel:`Search...` bar to
   open the drop-down menu.
#. Under the :guilabel:`Favorites` heading, click :guilabel:`Save current search`.
#. If desired, enter a new name for the report.
#. Tick the :guilabel:`Default Filter` checkbox to have these filter settings automatically
   displayed when the report is opened. Otherwise, leave it blank.
#. Tick the :guilabel:`Shared` checkbox to make this filter configuration available to all other

>    database users. If this checkbox is not ticked, only the user who creates the filter can access

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   database users. If this checkbox is not ticked, only the user who created the filter can access
```

   it.

> #. Click :guilabel:`Save` to preserve the configuration for future use.

Reviewer 3: Suggestion to just link to the Odoo essentials documentation for creating a Favorite search:
https://www.odoo.com/documentation/17.0/applications/essentials/search.html#favorites
```
:ref:`search/favorites`
```
